- [Narrator] Now let's see how to use
the ManagedThreadFactory with the ThreadPoolExecutor
and that will help to you return
an ExecutorService of the Java Standard Edition.
Let's see how to do that.
Let's get to the IDE and what I'm gonna do is
in the Rest class itself on line number 40,
I'm going to write a method.
That method is public.
It returns an ExecutorService.
Now please understand that this is the ExecutorService
of the java.util.concurrent package,
so I'm trying to take the reference
of the Standard Edition concurrency API.
This is a little different because
all this while we have been only dealing
with Enterprise concurrency resources
but we'll see how to use ManagedThreadFactory
and then get an ExecutorService.
So let's see how to do that.
Okay so this is going to return you
an ExecutorService and let's say,
I'm going to say, getApplicationPool.
And inside that I'll say,
ExecutorService take a reference for it,
and I'm going to say new ThreadPoolExecutor.
That's the API, now before actually trying
to do things ahead,
let's quickly understand one thing.
When you talk about ThreadPoolExecutor
this also comes in from the java.util.concurrent package.
When we did a lot of demos for
the Java Standard Edition platform APIs,
we always used the factory methods of a level
on the executor's utility class,
in order to get a service object right?
In those demos we could have used the ThreadPoolExecutor
as well to get your ExecutorService object,
but there's generally no need to do that
unless you really want to make sure that you provide
all the configuration parameters for the ThreadPoolSize,
for the maximum size of the pool, the keepAliveTime,
the queue that you want to mention
which can hold your tasks and so on and so forth.
So generally instead of configuring all this by yourself,
getting hold of the factory methods
on the executors utility class is always advised,
even by the API but now what we are trying to do is,
we are trying to use this ThreadPoolExecutor
under the Enterprise application,
and that is going to get us an executor service.
How?
Take a look at these method calls.
You have this version which gets you the ExecutorService
and it demands from you a lot of arguments.
One is corePoolSize, the number of active threads,
maximumPoolSize, how many threads can this pool hold
at a maximum level, keepAliveTime.
So let's say if the pool currently has
more than your core pool size threads,
then excessive threads in that pool will be terminated
if they have been idle for more than
this keepAliveTime that you're trying to mention okay?
TimeUnit is of course what kind of time unit
are you specifying for the keepAliveTime.
Then BlockingQueue which is used to hold submitted tasks.
So what this BlockingQueue does is,
so let's say if you have threads which are fewer
than your corePoolSize threads,
then the executor will always prefer adding
a new thread rather than queuing.
But let's say if the corePoolSize
or more threads are running,
then the executor will prefer queuing a request,
rather than adding a new thread okay
so you can specify how many number
of tasks can this queue hold at a time,
and then it will execute accordingly.
And the last argument is really what we're interested in,
it demands a ThreadFactory.
And we know that ManagedThreadFactory service
of the concurrency set is actually
an extension to this factory.
So now what I'm gonna do is
when I call the ThreadPoolExecutor,
I'm actually going to pass the ManagedThreadFactory
as the last argument.
So let's go ahead and do this.
The corePoolSize is let's say three.
The maximum number of threads that I
want to keep let's say, is 10.
The keepAliveTime is let's say five.
Of course the TimeUnit I'm going to specify is seconds.
And the workQueue, I'm going to create
a new array BlockingQueue.
And I'm going to give it the number of tasks to be held
as two and this ThreadFactory is now
the injected resource on 27 so I'm going
to provide the ManagedThreadFactory as an argument
to the constructor of ThreadPoolExecutor.
Now once you do this, what is going to happen is,
that the service object that is returned
out of this API is going to have managed threads.
That's because you employ the ManagedThreadFactory
to create those threads for you.
So now when you have created threads out of this executor,
you will still have those threads having
the entire contextual information of the container,
so they'll run in the application components context.
Alright let's come to the next line
and just return the service from here.
Okay now that we have written this method,
let's go back to the logData method and on line 35
I am just going to call the getApplicationPool method
that we have written right now
and get the service object so I'm gonna say,
ExecutorService = getApplicationPool.
Okay and let's do one thing let's run a loop
so that the logging task happens again and again okay?
int i = 0, let's run it for let's say,
six times i++,
and what are we going to do?
We are going to take our service,
and now this is the SE service so on this I'll have
to call the submit API and I'm going to pass
an instance of the LoggingProcessor.
So that's what I want to do.
So let's go ahead and run this now,
and see the output so we're going to make sure
that the changes are deployed.
Okay I'm going to his this again.
Okay so logging thread is doing its job, check console.
Okay now let's see what happened on the console.
Yeah do you see?
The threads that you're getting are actually spawned
out of the ManagedThreadFactory.
That's why they are named like
defaultManagedThreadFactory Thread-4, Thread-5,
Thread-7 then eight, six, four, six.
So they're also getting reused whenever necessary.
Okay the logging thread name that we had got
on the console that's for the earlier video,
where we were trying to create a single thread
out of the ManagedThreadFactory.
But these names that you're getting now are
actually the threads that have been created
out of your ManagedThreadFactory
and fed to the ExecutorService.
That's why these threads will also have
the entire application component context information
with them when they're executing
the job of that asynchronous task.
Okay so that's how you can use the ThreadPoolExecutor
and feed ManagedThreadFactory to it
in order to get an ExecutorService object,
which will consist of threads created
through the ManagedThreadFactory.